# OnTask Project Governance

## Overview

The objective of the OnTask project is to provide a tool to support instructors
in the use of data to provide personalized support actions to learners. The 
platform has been implemented using the Python/Django stack using a wide
collection of libraries for functionality such as REST API, Table rendering,
data frame manipulation, etc. The code is available under MIT license. The 
project received initial funds (2016-2018) from the Office for Learning and 
Teaching of the Australian Government.

Users may become involved in the project through the various roles described
below in this document, mainly: maintainers (write code, commit new versions,
maintain the deployments), contributors (comment on functionality, help with
feature design concepts, provide feedback about use), or simply using the 
platform.

Given its current size and community, the project has adopted the [BDFL governance model](http://oss-watch.ac.uk/resources/benevolentdictatorgovernancemodel). 

## Roles and Responsibilities

The following roles and responsibilities are considered in the project.

### Author

This role is assigned once to the person that created the project 
(Abelardo Pardo. GitHub user: abelardopardo)

### Owner

This role has the administrative rights of the repository and is responsible for
its structure, permissions, and high level documentation. This role is also in
charge of the road-map, high level design decisions, and release planning.

Current owner: Abelardo Pardo. Github user: abelardopardo

### Maintainers

This group is in charge of committing new code, preparing new releases, 
deploying new versions in demo servers (if applicable), documentation and 
ticket resolution.

Current maintainers (Github users):

- andrew-gardener

- japesone (responsible for the Finish localization)

- anthonysymons

- Shizu Zhang (responsible for the Chinese localization)


### Contributors

This group includes any person that has contributed with any type of information
to the project: (reporting issues)[https://github.com/abelardopardo/ontask_b/issues], suggesting improvements, disseminating the
use of the tool, organising events, etc.

### Community Members

This group includes any user of OnTask or anybody with interest in the overall
objective of the project.

### Institutions that have used OnTask

- University of South Australia, Australia

- University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia

- University of British Columbia, Canada

- University of Auckland, New Zealand

- University of Adelaide, Australia

- University of Technology Sydney (UTS), Australia

- RMIT, Australia

- University Carlos III de Madrid, Spain

- North West University, South Africa

- University of Texas at Arlington
 
## Support

The project support will be done mainly through the "Issues" section of the 
GitHub repository. Any requests, questions, concern, suggestions, etc., should
be created in that platform. The owner and maintainers will then decide how 
these [issues](https://github.com/abelardopardo/ontask_b/issues) can be addressed and solved.

The project cannot make any guarantees on how this process is managed in terms
of issues to be solved or, if they are addressed, the time it will take to be
solved.

## Decision-making process

The decision-making process used in the project will have three stages:

- Consultations with the contributors (optional) through the GitHub Issue system

- Discussion with the maintainers (optional) through the GitHub Issue system or
  other channels such as private email

- Final decision by the owner.

## Contribution process

The contributions to the project could be as any of the following:

- Writing code to implement new features not present in the platform with the
  consensus of the owner. At the end of hte process a pull request needs to
  be issued to merge the code in the appropriate branch.

- Fixing issues previously reported through GitHub. At the end of the process
  a pull request needs to be issued so that the new code is merged with the
  appropriate branch of the project.

- Proposing, reporting or [commenting issues](https://github.com/abelardopardo/ontask_b/issues) found in the platform through the Issues section of the GitHub platform

